hey evolution why aren't giant
pets of thing yet huh
if dinosaurs grew enough to fill
a whole room why can't i have a
big red dog the size of a house
hey everyone was that here for
dnews particle captures our
imagination about dinosaurs is
just how huge some of them work
the american museum of natural
history has a cast of a tight
i'ma store
that's so big it doesn't
completely fit in the dinosaur
wing the 37 meter-long behemoths
head have to poke out towards
the elevators
it's got individual bones bigger
than people
the very name of the group of
dinosaurs it belongs to have the
word tighten in it but when you
start to consider the size of
some of these extinct species it
can make you a philosoraptor
why isn't any land animal this
huge today
you may wonder well you're not
the only one lucky for us
paleontologists have been
debating the same question and
they've come up with a number of
different factors that could
explain why some giant reptiles
of yesteryear dwarf modern land
creatures
it's important to keep in mind
that dinosaurs lived a long time
ago
no daughter right but what you
may not realize is that before
the dinosaurs were wiped out
they were living on a completely
different kind of Earth that we
live in today
dinosaurs actually started
coming on to the scene about 230
million years before present
during their existence co2
levels were all over the place
estimates vary but for some
stretches there could have been
three to five times as much
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
as there is today
this means the world as a whole
was a lot hotter even at higher
latitudes and because at the
beginning of the Mesozoic era
all and was clumped together in
Pangaea the ocean didn't have as
much of a cooling effect on the
supercontinent this would make
the planet a more hospitable
place for I don't know giant
cold-blooded reptiles that
wouldn't have to waste energy
maintaining body heat
see another reason to working
about global warming get out of
that SUV and onto a bike unless
you want to see T Rexes in your
sideview mirror
it may come for you to know that
paleontologists aren't all in
agreement on the exact amount
the atmosphere impacted dinosaur
sighs it could have had no
effect at all and whether or not
dinosaurs were all cold-blooded
is
even up for debate their size
could have also been driven by
an abundance of food all that
co2 meant there was likely more
vegetation if there's plentiful
vegetation than large herbivores
can thrive they actually benefit
from being bigger because longer
intestines would be better at
breaking down plant matter and
extracting its nutrients
then they could spend less time
chewing and more time stuffing
green down there giant bullets
also if the herbivores grew
larger than they were harder for
predators to take down until the
Predators got bigger than the
herbivores would get bigger than
the Predators would get bigger
again
you see this is where I'm going
and it's not good but there is
an upper limit two thighs
because of physical constraints
like gravity
part of the reason well as get
so huge is because the ocean
supports their weight on land
a similar-sized animal would
crush itself without some clever
life hacks huge dinosaurs like
sauropods had lightly bones
compared to mammals because
there's were hollow dinosaurs
also had another advantage over
mammals
when it comes to live in large
they laid eggs if they had to
give birth to live young it
would be much harder for them to
have large offspring quickly
for instance elephants have 22
months of gestation periods they
can't breathe very quickly
because life birth is so
resource intensive and it
requires a large birth canal
interestingly these traits of
hollow bones and egg lane have
come in handy in a very
different way today they make it
possible for the descendants of
dinosaurs to fly
that's right I'm talking about
birds why they were so big is
still a matter of debate and
hopefully we'll find more
research out there but at the
moment they're trying to put
together a hundred million year
old puzzle with a lot of missing
pieces
want to learn more about huge
saltwater creatures that are
alive today
don't miss new episodes of river
monsters every thursday and 9:00
8:00 central on animal planet
seriously about dinosaurs equal
birds here's a video all about
their gradual shift from
ferocious predators to feathered
peckers separate research also
published in science last month
theorizes that all dinosaurs had
feathers somewhere more
primitive like hairs are
bristles while others were soft
and downy like modern Birds
so are you glad giant reptiles
no longer run amuck or what you
want a pet raptor
share your thoughts in the
comments and remember to
subscribe to dnews you never
miss an episode thanks for
watching guys